(DOCSP-11659): MongoDB Data Access Web Long Doc (#399)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/web/mongodb.txt

===================
MongoDB Data Access
===================

The following actions enable access to a linked MongoDB Atlas cluster
from a Web app using the  {+service-short+} Web SDK.

.. include:: /includes/mongodb-data-access-query-filter-indeterminate-order-note.rst

.. _web-mongodb-set-up:

Set Up Your Project
-------------------

.. include:: /includes/steps/crud-snippets-web.rst

Example Data
------------

.. include:: /includes/mongodb-data-access-example-plant-documents.rst

.. _web-mongodb-create-documents:

Create Documents
----------------

These code snippets demonstrate how to insert one or more documents into
a MongoDB collection from a web app. Insert operations take a
document or documents to add to MongoDB as an argument and return a
:mdn:`Promise <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise>` that
resolves to an object that contains the results of the execution of the
operation.

Insert a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can insert a single document using :js-sdk:`collection.insertOne() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#insertOne>`.

The following snippet inserts a single document describing a "lily of the
valley" plant into a

> :ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores

Reviewer: I don't think these links are working. Do you need to specify the ref label by the section? That should fix all the instances I think.

Author: Good catch - I added the ref: ".. _web-mongodb-example-dataset:" now

   
   const plants = [
     {
       name: "rhubarb",
       sunlight: "full",
       color: "red",
       type: "perennial",
       _partition: "Store 47",
     },
     {
       name: "wisteria lilac",
       sunlight: "partial",
       color: "purple",
       type: "perennial",
       _partition: "Store 42",
     },
     {
       name: "daffodil",
       sunlight: "full",
       color: "yellow",
       type: "perennial",
       _partition: "Store 42",
     },
   ];
   const insertManyResult = await mongoCollection.insertMany(plants);
   console.log(insertManyResult);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   {
      insertedIds: [
        5f1f4500e0ef86239b6d7ae6,
        5f1f4500e0ef86239b6d7ae7,
        5f1f4500e0ef86239b6d7ae8
      ]
   }

Read Documents
--------------

These code snippets demonstrate how to read data stored in a MongoDB
collection from a mobile application. Read operations use :manual:`query
filters </core/document/#document-query-filter>` to specify which
documents to return from the database. Read operations return a
:mdn:`Promise <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise>` that

> resolves to either a single matched document (in the case of

Reviewer: Nitpick: "either" is usually used for exactly two items. Here, you list three, so I would use "one of the following: " or something similar.

Author: 👍

> resolves to either a single matched document (in the case of

Author: ```suggestion
resolves to one of the following: a single matched document (in the case of
```

   const allPlantsFromStore42Result = await mongoCollection.find(findManyQueryFilter);
   console.log(allPlantsFromStore42Result);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   [ { _id: 5f1f4266e0ef86239b6c416c, name: 'venus flytrap', sunlight: 'full', color: 'white', type: 'perennial', _partition: 'Store 42' }, { _id: 5f1f4266e0ef86239b6c416d, name: 'sweet basil', sunlight: 'partial', color: 'green', type: 'annual', _partition: 'Store 42' }, { _id: 5f1f4266e0ef86239b6c416e, name: 'thai basil', sunlight: 'partial', color: 'green', type: 'perennial', _partition: 'Store 42' }, { _id: 5f1f4266e0ef86239b6c416f, name: 'helianthus', sunlight: 'full', color: 'yellow', type: 'annual', _partition: 'Store 42' }, { _id: 5f1f4500e0ef86239b6d7ae7, name: 'wisteria lilac', sunlight: 'partial', color: 'purple', type: 'perennial', _partition: 'Store 42' }, { _id: 5f1f4500e0ef86239b6d7ae8, name: 'daffodil', sunlight: 'full', color: 'yellow', type: 'perennial', _partition: 'Store 42' } ]

Count Documents in the Collection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can count documents in a collection using

> :js-sdk:`collection.count() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#findOne>`.

Reviewer: Is this the correct link? I see findOne, not count(). I think you meant:
Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#count

Author: 👍

   
   const queryFilter = {
     sunlight: "full",
     type: "perennial",
     color: "green",
     _partition: "Store 47",
   };
   const updateDocument = {
     name: "sweet basil",
   };
   const updateOptions = {
     upsert: true,
   };
 
   const upsertResult = await mongoCollection.updateOne(
     queryFilter,
     updateDocument,
     updateOptions
   );
   console.log(upsertResult);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   { matchedCount: 0, modifiedCount: 0, upsertedId: 5f1f63055512f2cb67f460a3 }

Delete Documents
----------------

These code snippets demonstrate how to delete documents that
are stored in a MongoDB collection from a mobile application.
Delete operations use a query filter to specify which documents to delete
and return a :mdn:`Promise <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise>`
that resolves to an object that contains the results of the execution
of the operation.

.. _web-mongodb-deleteOne:

Delete a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can delete a single document from a collection using
:js-sdk:`collection.deleteOne() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#deleteOne>`.

> The following snippet deletes one document in a

Reviewer: Nitpick: "deletes... from a"

   
   const queryFilter = {
     sunlight: "full",
     type: "perennial",
     color: "green",
     _partition: "Store 47",
   };
   const updateDocument = {
     name: "sweet basil",
   };
   const updateOptions = {
     upsert: true,
   };
 
   const upsertResult = await mongoCollection.updateOne(
     queryFilter,
     updateDocument,
     updateOptions
   );
   console.log(upsertResult);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   { matchedCount: 0, modifiedCount: 0, upsertedId: 5f1f63055512f2cb67f460a3 }

Delete Documents
----------------

These code snippets demonstrate how to delete documents that
are stored in a MongoDB collection from a mobile application.
Delete operations use a query filter to specify which documents to delete
and return a :mdn:`Promise <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise>`
that resolves to an object that contains the results of the execution
of the operation.

.. _web-mongodb-deleteOne:

Delete a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can delete a single document from a collection using
:js-sdk:`collection.deleteOne() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#deleteOne>`.

> The following snippet deletes one document in a

Author: ```suggestion
The following snippet deletes one document from a
```
